#  Introduction    

The Dynamic Link Event Protocol (DLEP is defined in ([I-D.ietf-manet-dlep](#DLEP)).
It provides for the exchange of link related control information between 
DLEP peers. DLEP peers are comprised as a moddem and a router. DLEP 
defines a base set of mechanisms as well as support for possible extensions.

The base DLEP specification does not include any flow control capability.
However, in the world of radio-based networking, there are modems that need
fine-grained flow control over traffic ingressing from a LAN connection,
bound for transmission over a Radio Frequency (RF) link. The need for 
such fine-grained control can exist for multiple reasons. For example, 
radio devices are typically connected to the network by Ethernet. The 
capacity of an Ethernet link is normally far superior to that of the 
wireless medium, leading to the possibility of overruns and dropped 
traffic. This is exacerbated by the fact that RF link capacity 
can vary from moment to moment, for an indeterminate amount of time. 
Additionally, the capacity of the link can vary greatly depending on 
the destination, due to factors such as obstructions or multipath fading,
and on the classification of the traffic being sent. 

These challenges motivate the requirement for a fine-grained flow 
control in radio-based communications - one that can support 
different window sizes for destinations and/or traffic classification
queues accessed across the RF network. 

This document defines a DLEP extension which provides flow control 
for DiffServ [RFC2475](#RFC2475) traffic sent from router or modem. Flow control 
is provided for multiple Differentiated Services Codepoints (DSCPs), 
which are grouped into sets of logical queues. 


#  Requirements

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
"OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in 
BCP 14, RFC 2119 [](#RFC2119).




#  Extension Overview

This protocol extension to DLEP describes a credit windowing scheme 
for flow control of data over the RF network.  With this protocol, data 
plane traffic flowing between the router and modem is controlled by 
establishing unidirectional "windows". The ability of a sender to 
transmit traffic into a window is controlled by the availability of 
credits. 

This document identfies the unidirectional windows as the 
'Modem Receive Window', or MRW, and the 'Router Receive Window', or
RRW. The responsibility of granting credits lies with the receiver 
on a window - that is, on an MRW, the modem is responsible for 
granting credits to the router, allowing it (the router) to send 
data plane traffic to the modem. Likewise, the router is responsible 
for granting credits on the RRW, which allows the modem to send 
data plane traffic to the router. This document refers to the 
receiver on the window as the 'Window Manager'.

Credits represent the number of data plane octets, or an increment in the 
number of data plane octets, that can be sent on a given window at the 
MAC layer, including MAC headers, to the receiver. 

When the extension is to be used, the Window Manager passes to the 
peer its known DSCPs, if any. DSCPs are grouped by logical queues, 
each of which are given a logical queue index. The queue index 
zero (0) is special and is used for any DSCP value, including 0, 
which is not otherwise identified by the receiver. The 
Window Manager also provides a size, in bytes, of the logical queue for 
informative, and potential future, uses. Currently, only the DSCP to 
logical queue index value mapping is used in flow control operation. 

The Credit extension supports credit based flow control on a per
MAC address destination, per queue basis.

Window Managers provide the initial size of the associated "Credit 
Window" i.e., the amount of data in octets that may be sent to the 
receiver, when a DLEP MAC destination becomes available. Increments
to the available credits are supplied on an as-needed bases, based on 
heuristics implemented in the Window Manager. The specifics of the 
algorithm(s) used in a Window Manager to determine whether to issue an 
increment, or to determine the size of an increment, are out of scope
for this specification. 

All of the Credit information (e.g., Credit Increments, Window Start 
and Stop, and Window Status) are transmitted between DLEP peers using
the new "Credit Control" and "Credit Control Response" Messages, 
defined in this specification.

Credit information, both grants and status, is provided in new credit
grant related data items. Each data item contains a value representing
the available credits, and a current count (either send or receive 
count) on the window. 

## Counts

To account for in-flight packets, DLEP peers are required to keep per
queue counts for traffic sent and received. When the Window Manager
peer issues a Credit Grant data item, the data item contains both 
the increment (i.e., the number of octets that the Window Manager is 
authorizing to be sent), and the current receive count on the window. 

The traffic sender, upon receiving the Credit Grant, can use the 
count and increment data to calculate a 'not to exceed' value for 
its traffic to be sent. This not to exceed value can also take 
in-flight traffic (traffic sent but not yet received and queued
by the receiver) into account. 

Differences in the sender's count of octets sent, and the receiver's 
count of octet received can either be categorized as (a) in-flight 
traffic, or (b) dropped traffic. Using these counters, implementations
can account for traffic in-flight at the time a grant is received, 
and to detect drift in the counters due to packet loss. 


   
#  Terminology        {#credit_terminology}

In general, the document uses the same terminology as specified in
the core DLEP document [](#DLEP). In addition, the document uses the following
terms:

 o Modem Receive Window, or MRW. The MRW represents a logical,
unidirectional window for traffic flowing from the router to 
the modem.

 o Router Receive Window, or RRW. The RRW represents a logical, 
unidirectional window for traffic flowing from the modem to the 
router. 

#  Extension Usage and Operation   {#credit_operation}

The use of the extension defined in this document SHOULD be 
configurable. To indicate that the Credit Windowing Extension 
is to be used, an implementation MUST include the the DiffServ
Aware Credit Windowing Type Value in the Extensions Supported 
Data Item. The Extensions Supported Data Item is sent and 
processed according to ([I-D.ietf-manet-dlep]i(#DLEP)).

The Credit Windowing Extension Type is TBA1, see Section 8.

Credits are managed on a per destination, per queue basis - separate 
credit counts MUST be maintained for each destination/queue index 
requiring the service. Credits MUST NOT be applied to the DLEP 
session that exists between routers and modems; they are applied 
only to the data plane traffic. There are no default values for 
either the initial credit window or the credit increments.

Credit controlled sessions MUST begin with the receiver on a 
window (i.e., the Window Manager) issuing a Credit Control message, 
containing a Credit Grant data item, to the peer, The Credit 
Grant data item MUST have a non-zero value as the increment, 
and a value for the receive count for the queue.

Credit windows MAY be established in both directions (e.g., both MRW 
and RRW), or in one direction only - for example, the MRW can be 
established, thus credit-controlling traffic from router to modem, 
without establishing the corresponding RRW, allowing a modem to send 
traffic to the router without credit constraints. 

When receiving a Credit Grant data item to initialize a window,
the receiver MUST take one of the following actions:

1. If the receiver of the Credit Grant data item determines that use of 
credits is not supported for the destination, the reciver MUST reject the 
use of credits for this destination, by issuing a Credit Control
Response Message containing a Status data item with a status code of 
'Credit Use Rejected'. The reasons that a device might reject use of 
credits are proprietary in nature, but could include situations like 
conflict with existing quality of service algorithms already in use, or 
perceived infrequency of traffic to the destination, such that the credit 
scheme induces more overhead than is desired. 

2. If the receiver supports use of credits for the destination, it MUST
initialize the credit value for the window to zero, then apply the increment
specified in the Credit Grant data item. The receiver of the request 
MUST also set its current send count to the same value that is in the 
received Credit Grant. Then, the receiver then MUST issue a corresponding 
Credit Control Response Message with a Status data item with a status code 
of 'Success', and a Credit Window Status data item containing the 
initialized values. 

3. When the Window Manager receives the Credit Control Response Message 
showing that count and credit values have been established, the Window
Manager MUST then issue a Credit Control Message with the Credit Window 
Start data item.  This completes the establishment of the window. 

If credit-windowing initialization is successfully completed,
Data plane traffic would then flow between the DLEP peers, with said peers
accounting for the traffic sent/received by incremented by the appropriate
credit counts. 

The number of credits needed for a given transmission is the length 
of the data portion of the packet at the MAC layer.  When sending data to a 
credit enabled peer, the sender MUST decrement the appropriate window by the 
size of the data being sent, prior to encapsulation at the MAC layer. When 
traffic is received, the receiver MUST decrement its own window after 
decapsulation at the MAC layer.

When the number of available credits to the destination reaches 0, the 
sender MUST stop sending data plane traffic to the destination, until 
additional credits are granted by the receiver. 

During normal operation, DLEP session peers MAY disagree about the number of 
available credits. Operational credit mismatches can occur due to packets in
transit on the wire, or sequencing of sending and receiving packets (e.g. 
packets are sent prior to processing DLEP control information). DLEP session 
peers SHOULD make every effort to keep credit counts in sync, and MAY use
the Credit Window Status data items to maintain that synchronization. 
The data items are informational only; they are used to inform the receiving peer 
of the current credit counts for both the MRW and RRW, from the perspective of the sender. 

This extension defines two Credit Window Status data items. The information 
on available credits and send/receive counts MUST be provided from the 
perspective of the originator (i.e., on a Modem Receive Window, or MRW, the 
modem counts are used to propagate fields in the Receiver Window Status 
data item; the DLEP router would supply its counts in the Sender Window Status).

Upon receipt of a Credit Window Status data item, an implementation SHOULD 
compare its own credit counts with that of the originator. If the receiver of 
Credit Window Status detects that the local credit counts are not synchronized with
the originator, the receiving implementation is free to employ various algorithms
to re-establish close synchrnoization, such as:

*  Allow the DLEP peer to completely exhaust its credits prior to re-supplying them via a Credit Grant Data Item, or
*  Immediately attempt resynchronization using an additional Credit Grant, if applicable, or
*  1. Issue a Credit Control Message with the Credit Window Stop data item to quiesce data plane traffic. 
   2. Issue a Credit Control Message with a Credit Request data item. Use the response to the Credit Request to re-initialize the send/receive counts (using the count of the Window Manager), then
   3. Issue a Credit Control Message with a Credit Window Start Data Item to restart data plane traffic on the queue index(es).
*  Other re-synchronization algorithms as deemed appropriate. 

If a DLEP message contains both the [Credit Grant](#cw_di_credit_grant) data item and 
a Credit Window Status data item, implementations MUST first apply the 
[Credit Grant](#cw_di_credit_grant) data item before comparing 
the credit counts contained in Credit Window Status.

It is RECOMMENDED that implementations issue a Credit Control Message with a 
Credit Window Status data item at a configurable multiple of the DLEP Heartbeat
timer, to serve as a continuing check on synchronization of the credit windows for 
a destination.

#  DLEP Messages for Credit-Window Extension {#credit_window_msgs}

## Credit Control Message

Credit Control Messages are sent by DLEP peers to start or stop 
credit controlled sessions, provide credit increments, and to 
notify the peer about status. As specified in the base DLEP 
specification [], only one message per MAC
address can be outstanding at one time. That is, peers MUST NOT
send a second (or any subsequent) message containing the same MAC
Address until a Credit Control Response message is received
with that MAC address.

   [TBD: Should anything be said about sending, or limiting, multiple
   credit requests?]

The Message Type value in the DLEP Message Header is set to TBA2.

The message MUST contain a DLEP MAC Address Data Item. Additional 
credit-related data items are added as needed. 

## Credit Control Response Message 

Credit Control Response Messages are sent by DLEP peers to acknowledge 
requests for window initialization, and to provide status on a credit
window.

The Message Type value in the DLEP Message Header is set to TBA3.

The message MUST contain a DLEP MAC Address Data Item.


#  DLEP Status Codes for Credit-Window Extension {#credit_window_status_codes}

The credit-windowing extension introduces two additional DLEP status code:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Status Code   Value  Failure Mode  Reason
------------  -----  ------------  ---------------------------------------
Credit Window  TBA4  Continue      Credit counts are out-of-sync between
Out of Sync                        sender and receiver on the destination.

Credit Use     TBA5  Continue      Credit counts cannot be used for the
Rejected                           destination.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------


#  DLEP Data Items for Credit-Window Extension {#credit_window_items}

Six data items are defined by this extension.  The Queue Parameters
Data Item is used by a modem to provide information on the DSCPs it
uses in forwarding.  The Credit Grant is used by a DLEP node to 
provide credits to its peer. The Credit Request is used by a DLEP 
peer to request additional credits. The Credit Window Status is
used to advertise the sender's view of number of available credits
for synchronization purposes.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Type Code   Description
----------- -------------------------------------------------------------
TBA6        [Queue Parameters](#cw_di_queue_parameters)

TBA7        [Credit Grant](#cw_di_credit_grant)

TBA8        [Credit Window Start](#cw_di_credit_start)

TBA9        [Credit Window Stop](#cw_di_credit_stop)

TBA10       [Receiver Credit Window Status](#cw_di_receiver_credit_status)

TBA11       [Sender Credit Window Status](#cw_di_sender_credit_status)

TBA12       [Credit Request](#cw_di_credit_req)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------


#  Credit Window Data Item Definitions

##  Queue Parameters   {#cw_di_queue_parameters}

The Queue Parameters Data Item is used to indicate DSCP
values that may be independently controlled.  This data item MUST be
included in a Session Initialization (for routers) or Session 
Initialization  Response Message (for modems) that also
contains the DiffServ Aware Credit Windowing Extension Type Value in
the Extensions Supported Data Item.  Updates to these parameters MAY
be sent by a modem by including the data item in Session Update
Messages.

The Queue Parameters Data Item identifies DSCPs based on groups of
logical queues.  The number of logical queues is variable as is the
number of DSCPs associated with each queue.  A queue size (in bytes)
is provided for informational purposes.  An implementation that does
not support DSCPs would indicate 1 queue with 0 DSCPs, and the number
of bytes that may be in its associated link transmit queue.

The format of the Queue Parameters Data Item is:

        0                   1                   2                   3
        0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       | Data Item Type                | Length                        |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |   Num Queues  | Scale |              Reserved                 |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |Num DSCPs Q0(0)|             Queue Size Q0                     |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       | Num DSCPs Q1  |             Queue Size Q1                     |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       | Num DSCPs Q2  |             Queue Size Q2                     |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       :                                ...                            :
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       | Num DSCPs Qn  |             Queue Size Qn                     |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |  DS Field Q1  |  DS Field Q1  |  DS Field Q1  |  DS Field Q2  |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       :                                ...            |  DS Field Qn  |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

   Data Item Type:  TBA6

   Length:  Variable

      Per [I-D.ietf-manet-dlep] Length is the number of octets in the
      data item, excluding the Type and Length fields.

   Num Queues:

      An 8-bit unsigned integer indicating the number of queues
      represented in the data item.  This field MUST contain a value of
      at least one (1).  Note that this number is one larger than the
      largest queue index value included in the data item.

   Scale:

      An 4-bit unsigned integer indicating the scale used in the Queue
      Size fields.  The valid values are:

         Value  Scale
         ------------
             0   B - Bytes     (Octets)
             1  KB - Kilobytes (B/1024)
             2  MB - Megabytes (KB/1024)
             3  GB - Gigabytes (MB/1024)

   Reserved:

      MUST be set to zero by the sender (a modem) and ignored by the
      receiver (a router).

   Num DSCPs Qn:

      An 8-bit unsigned integer indicating the number of DSCPs
      associated with the indexed queue.  Other than the special case
      covered in the next paragraph, this field MUST contain a value of
      at least one (1).  Queue indexes start at zero (0) and the maximum
      queue index "Qn" is one less than the value carried in the Num
      Queues field.  Queue indexes are implicit in the position in the
      data item.

      Queue index zero "Q0" is a special case.  It is used for any
      traffic that does not carry a DSCP value represented in the data
      item.  Therefore the value of the Queue index zero field, "Num
      DSCPs Q0", field MUST be zero (0).

   Queue Size Qn:

      A 24-bit unsigned integer representing the size, in the octet
      scale indicated by the Scale field, of the queue supporting
      traffic with the DSCPs associated with the queue index.

   DS Field Qn:

      The data item contains a sequence of 8 bit DS Fields.  The
      position in the sequence identifies the associated queue index.
      The number of DS Fields present should equal the sum of all Num
      DSCPs field values.

      The DS Field structure is the same as [RFC2474].


           0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7
         +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
         |         DSCP          |  CU   |
         +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

           DSCP: differentiated services codepoint
           CU:   currently unused, MUST be zero


##  Credit Grant    {#cw_di_credit_grant}

The Credit Grant data item is sent from a DLEP participant to grant an 
increment to credits on a window. The Credit Grant Data Item specifies
both the increment, and the received octet count that the increment was
calculated on.

When an implementation wishes to use credits to manage its receive window, 
it MUST send a Credit Control Message with a Credit Grant Data Item to 
initialize the credit window.

Implementations receiving the Credit Grant Data Item MUST respond with a 
Credit Control Response Message containing a Status Data Item. The status
code in the Status Data Item is set to 'Success' if credit operation is
accepted, or containing the 'Credit Use Rejected' status code if credit
management is not allowed, or not possible. If the Credit Grant is 
rejected, the rejecting implementation MAY supply additional text with the
status code to explain the reason for the rejection. 

If credits are used on a destination, the Credit Grant Data Item MAY appear in
subsequent Credit Control messages. Upon successful receipt and processing of a 
a Credit Grant data item, the receiver SHOULD respond with a Credit Control
Response Message containing a Credit Window Status data item to report the 
updated aggregate values for synchronization purposes.

The Credit Grant data item contains the following fields:

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Data Item Type                | Length                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |  Queue Index  |  Queue Index  |  Queue Index  |  Queue Index  |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:
:    TBA7

Length:
:    Variable

Queue Index:
:    A 64-bit unsigned integer representing the additional credits, in 
     octets, to be assigned to the credit window. 

Receive Count:
:    A 64-bit unsigned integer representing the current receive count, in
     octets, on the credit window. This count is the window manager's 
     receive count - i.e., on the MRW, this is the modem's receive count.
     On the RRW, this is the router's receive count. 

The sender of Credit Grant Data Item my replicate the Queue Index/Credit 
Increment/Receive Count data for each DSCP queue that is supported. 

Since credits can only be granted by the receiver on a window, the applicable 
credit window (either the MRW or the RRW) is derived from the sender of the 
grant. The Credit Increment MUST NOT cause the window to overflow; if this 
condition  occurs, implementations MUST set the credit window to the maximum
value contained in a 64-bit quantity (0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF).


## Credit Window Start     {#cw_di_credit_start}

After initialization of a credit window via a Credit Control Message with
a Credit Grant, and receipt of a Credit Control Response Message with the
response to Credit Grant, implementations begin the flow of data plane 
traffic by issuing a Credit Control Message with the Credit Window Start
data item. 

The Credit Window Start data item contains the following fields:

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Data Item Type                | Length                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |  Queue Index  |  Queue Index  |  Queue Index  |  Queue Index  |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:
:    TBA8

Length:
:    Variable

Queue Index:
:    One or more 8-bit fields used to indicate a queue index defined
     by a Queue Parameters Data Item. The special value of 255 indicates
     that the window start applies to all queue indexes.


## Credit Window Stop      {#cw_di_credit_stop}

When a DLEP peer determines that data plane traffic on a credit window 
should stop (or pause), the implementation MAY issue a Credit Control 
Message containing the Credit Window Stop Data Item.

The Credit Window Stop data item contains the following fields:

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Data Item Type                | Length                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |  Queue Index  |  Queue Index  |  Queue Index  |  Queue Index  |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:
:    TBA9

Length:
:    Variable

Queue Index:
:    One or more 8-bit fields used to indicate a queue index defined
     by a Queue Parameters Data Item. The special value of 255 indicates
     that the window start applies to all queue indexes.

## Receiver Credit Window Status    {#cw_di_receiver_credit_status}

The Receiver Credit Window Status data item is used by the Window 
Manager (i.e., the receiver on a window) to show the Window Manager's
perspecitve of the available credits, and the receive count for a 
set (from 1 - N) of queue indexes. 

The Receiver Credit Window Status data item contains the following fields:

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Data Item Type                | Length                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |  Queue Index  |     Available Credits Value                   :
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    :             Available Credits Value (continued)               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | ACV (cont).   |         Receive Count Value                   :
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    :                 Receive Count Value (continued)               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | RCV (cont).   |  Queue Index  | ...                           :
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    :                     ...                                       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    :                     ...                                       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    :                     ...                                       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    :                     ...       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:
:    TBA10

Length:
:    Variable

Queue Index:
:    An 8-bit field used to indicate a queue index defined by a 
     Queue Parameters Data Item, The special value of 255 
     indicates that the information in the data item applies to 
     all queue indexes. 

Available Credits Value:
:    A 64-bit unsigned integer, indicating the current number of 
     credits, in octets, available on the given window.

Receive Count Value:
:    A 64-bit unsigned integer, indicating the current count of  
     octets received on the window. 


## Sender Credit Window Status    {#cw_di_sender_credit_status}

The Sender Credit Window Status data item is used by the transmitting
peer on a window (e.g., the router on an MRW)) to show the sender's
perspecitve of the available credits, and the send count for a
set (from 1 - N) of queue indexes.

The Sender Credit Window Status data item contains the following fields:

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Data Item Type                | Length                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |  Queue Index  |     Available Credits Value                   :
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    :             Available Credits Value (continued)               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | ACV (cont).   |         Send Count Value                      :
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    :                 Send Count Value (continued)                  |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | SCV (cont).   |  Queue Index  | ...                           :
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    :                     ...                                       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    :                     ...                                       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    :                     ...                                       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    :                     ...       |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:
:    TBA11

Length:
:    Variable

Queue Index:
:    An 8-bit field used to indicate a queue index defined by a
     Queue Parameters Data Item, The special value of 255
     indicates that the information in the data item applies to
     all queue indexes.

Available Credits Value:
:    A 64-bit unsigned integer, indicating the current number of
     credits, in octets, available on the given window.

Send Count Value:
:    A 64-bit unsigned integer, indicating the current count of
     octets sent on the window.



## Credit Request    {#cw_di_credit_req}

The Credit Request data item MAY be sent to the Window Manager in a 
Credit Window Control Message to indicate the desire for the partner 
to grant additional credits in order for data transfer to proceed on 
the session.

If credits are supported on the destination, then the receiver of a Credit
Request Data Item SHOULD issue a Credit Window Control Message, with a Credit
Grant Data Item, giving the peer an increment of credits for the destination. 

The Credit Request data item contains the following fields:

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Data Item Type                | Length                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    | Queue Index  |            ...                                 |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           ...                 |  Queue Index  |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Data Item Type:
:    TBA12

Length:
:    Variable

Queue Index:
:    An 8-bit field used to indicate a queue index defined by a
     Queue Parameters Data Item, The special value of 255
     indicates that the information in the data item applies to
     all queue indexes.


#  Security Considerations {#cw_security_considerations}

The extension introduces a mechanims for destination-specific flow control 
between a router and modem supporting the DLEP protocol. The extension does
not introduce any additional threats above those documented in [](#DLEP). The
approach taken to security in that document applies when implementing this 
extension. 


#  IANA Considerations {#cw_iana_considerations}

This section specifies requests to IANA.

## Registrations  {#cw_iana_registrations}

This specification defines seven (7) new entries in the repository entitled
"Data Item Type Values for the Dynamic Link Exchange Protocol (DLEP)". Assignments
from that registry are requested for:

* Queue Parameters
* Credit Window Start
* Credit Window Stop
* Credit Grant
* Credit Request
* Receiver Credit Window Status 
* Sender Credit Window Status

The specification also defines an extension to the DLEP protocol. An assignment
from the repository entitled "Extension Type Values for the Dynamic Link Exchange
Protocol (DLEP)" is requested for:

* Credit Windowing

In addition, the specification defines two (2) new DLEP status codes. Assignments
from the repository entitled "Status Code Values for the Dynamic Link Exchange
Protocol (DLEP)" are requested for:

* Credit Window Out of Sync
* Credit Use Rejected

#  Acknowledgements  {#cw_acknowledgements}

The author would like to acknowledge and thank the members of the MANET 
working group, who have provided valuable insight. Specifically, the author 
would like to thank Justin Dean, Brian Amundson, Rick Taylor, John Dowdell, 
Shawn Jury, and Darryl Satterwhite.
